











 Home






 Questions






 Tags







 Discussions
Labs






 Chat







 Users







 Companies






Collectives








                                        Communities for your favorite technologies.  Explore all Collectives





Teams



            Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
        
Try Teams for free
Explore Teams




Teams







            Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
            Explore Teams









Collectives™ on Stack Overflow
Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.

                    Learn more about Collectives
                





Teams
Q&A for work
Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.

                    Learn more about Teams
                













Data Analysis with Python and Pandas Tutorial, part 7 from sentdex



        Ask Question
    





Asked
7 years, 7 months ago


Modified
7 years, 7 months ago


Viewed
                        296 times
                    
















0        













Video Link here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WkIW0YLoQEE&index=7&list=PLQVvvaa0QuDc-3szzjeP6N6b0aDrrKyL-
I'm having a difficult time with keeping the labels of the "State Name" columns in my code that has a "for loop" running through "indexed" data that the gentleman demonstrates through the video. I've noticed the tutorial is close to two years old, but I'm not entirely sure if some sort of patch or update is preventing my code from fully operating
import quandl
import pandas as pd
import pickle

api_key = open('C:\\Users\\TheSalt\\Documents\\{apicode}.txt','r').read()
fiddy_states=pd.read_html('https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_U.S._states')
#print (fiddy_states) 
main_df = pd.DataFrame() 
for abbv in fiddy_states[0][0][1:]:
   query ="FMAC/HPI_" + str(abbv)
   df = quandl.get(query, authtoken=api_key)
   if main_df.empty:
       main_df = df
   else:
       main_df = main_df.join(df, lsuffix= '.')

print (main_df)

Output:
A Snip It of the Output 
Any assistance is appreciated. 




pythonpandasfor-loopdataframequandl









Share


Improve this question



                        Follow
                        










edited Aug 15, 2017 at 22:49















            asked Aug 15, 2017 at 2:12






        user8350630user8350630








5










Can you please fix your grammar? I would love to help, but find it nearly impossible because you expressed your problems in a poor manner.

– user3576467


Commented
Aug 15, 2017 at 2:19











@user3576467: it seems understandable in English terms to me. What did you not understand? As it goes, this post is fairly high in readability terms, compared to some on the site...

– halfer


Commented
Aug 15, 2017 at 12:42











It's only this sentence: I'm having a difficult time with keeping the "State Name" columns in my code has the "for loop" is running through an "indexed" data that gentlemen demonstrate through the video. Can you please help clarify it?

– user3576467


Commented
Aug 15, 2017 at 16:44











I apologize. Is it easier to read now?

– user8350630


Commented
Aug 15, 2017 at 22:47














If it needs to be better explained, I'm not understanding why the output is showing me generic "Value's" as the column labels when it is iterating through data that already has the abbreviations of the states as the labels. The labels seem to disappear.

– user8350630


Commented
Aug 15, 2017 at 22:55







Add a comment
 | 



 






Related questions




                                1
                            

Different result of code example on book: Python for Data Analysis






                                2
                            

python - understanding of for loop






                                1
                            

Data Analysis using Python Pandas






Related questions




                                1
                            

Different result of code example on book: Python for Data Analysis






                                2
                            

python - understanding of for loop






                                1
                            

Data Analysis using Python Pandas






                                0
                            

stuck with a simple pandas dataframe looping






                                2
                            

Pandas Dataframe For Loop






                                0
                            

Analysis of Data in Python (Dataframe and nested loops)






                                0
                            

Applying for loops on dataframe?






                                0
                            

For loop over dataframe python






                                0
                            

Advanced using of for loop






                                0
                            

python multiple for loop question (pandas, dataframe)







 Load 7 more related questions
                

 Show fewer related questions
                









0






            Sorted by:
        

            Reset to default
        




                        Highest score (default)
                    

                        Trending (recent votes count more)
                    

                        Date modified (newest first)
                    

                        Date created (oldest first)
                    







Know someone who can answer? Share a link to this question via email, Twitter, or Facebook.                                    







                                    Your Answer
                                


























































































Thanks for contributing an answer to Stack Overflow!Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research!But avoid …Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers.Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience.To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers.






Draft saved
Draft discarded










Sign up or log in


 Sign up using Google
                        

 Sign up using Email and Password
                        



Submit

Post as a guest


Name









Email
Required, but never shown












Post as a guest


Name









Email
Required, but never shown











                                            Post Your Answer
                                        

                                            Discard
                                        

                                                By clicking “Post Your Answer”, you agree to our terms of service and acknowledge you have read our privacy policy.










                            The Overflow Blog
                        


 

From training to inference: The new role of web data in LLMs




 

Is AI a bubble or a revolution? The answer is yes.



                            Featured on Meta
                        


 

Changes to reporting for the [status-review] escalation process




 

Policy: Generative AI (e.g., ChatGPT) is banned




 

A discussion about closed (and potentially useful) posts on Stack Overflow
















            Hot Network Questions
        




                    What is willful blindness?
                



                    Counting complexity of SAT with 2 occurrences
                



                    Repo rate and discount factors
                



                    Is nirvana not extinction?
                



                    Why doesn't the Cosmic Microwave Background have a more complex spectrum?
                



                    Contracting the First-Person Singular Präteritum
                



                    Fixing Math display issue
                



                    Python Exception Monitor
                



                    Is an unmodified Rubik's cube solvable from looking at three sides?
                



                    In search of a list of seven words tied together
                



                    Are degeneracies essential in presentation of higher algebraic objects?
                



                    What are the advantages for the US in starting a trade war with everyone else at the same time?
                



                    Contrasting results about time intervals measured by stationary and moving observers: why?
                



                    Is there any examples at all of loaned adjectival verbs / い-adjectives?
                



                    Monster-of-the-week teen/kids show from the late 1990s
                



                    How can I convert this vintage digital alarm clock from 50 Hz to 60 Hz?
                



                    How the Rectocrus walks
                



                    A group generated by an element and its conjugate must be solvable.
                



                    What is an example of "foundation" for Husserl?
                



                    How to make the lstlisting highlight keywords
                



                    Looking for connections between Parshas Tzav & Pesach
                



                    Choice of imperative verb when followed by « s'il vous plaît » or by « s'il te plaît »
                



                    "なんないスかねぇ" what does it mean?
                



                    mathematical metaphors in Alice's adventures
                



            more hot questions
        




            Question feed
        




                Subscribe to RSS
            



                        Question feed
                        To subscribe to this RSS feed, copy and paste this URL into your RSS reader.















lang-py



