














0        













The matplotlib documentation 
https://matplotlib.org/gallery/lines_bars_and_markers/simple_plot.html
provides the following example code
import matplotlib
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import numpy as np

# Data for plotting
t = np.arange(0.0, 2.0, 0.01)
s = 1 + np.sin(2 * np.pi * t)

fig, ax = plt.subplots()
ax.plot(t, s)

ax.set(xlabel='time (s)', ylabel='voltage (mV)',
       title='About as simple as it gets, folks')
ax.grid()

fig.savefig("test.png")
plt.show()

to produce the following plot

The exact same plot can be produced with the following code
import matplotlib
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import numpy as np
t = np.arange(0.0, 2.0, 0.01)
s = 1 + np.sin(2 * np.pi * t)
plt.plot(t,s)
plt.grid(True)
plt.xlabel('time (s)')
plt.ylabel('voltage (mV)')
plt.title('About as simple as it gets, folks')
plt.savefig("test.png")
plt.show()

which makes no use of subplot, ax, or fig.
I learned how to plot using the second approach. I've stumbled upon the first approach only recently
and although I can kind of imagine what it's doing, it does seem far less intuitive than the second approach.
Can somebody explain the rational behind the first approach as it seems to complicate something very simple?




pythonmatplotlibsubplot









Share


Improve this question



                        Follow
                        










            asked Nov 5, 2018 at 4:53






redwood_gmredwood_gm

36333 silver badges1111 bronze badges







1










If I'm making several figures, each with multiple axes objects, I would rather explicitly and directly operate on objects (fig and ax) than hope the pyplot state machine is correctly reading my mind.

– Paul H


Commented
Nov 5, 2018 at 6:16










Add a comment
 | 



 











                                        1 Answer
                                    1






            Sorted by:
        

            Reset to default
        




                        Highest score (default)
                    

                        Trending (recent votes count more)
                    

                        Date modified (newest first)
                    

                        Date created (oldest first)
                    
















0        


















The pyplot approach may look more intuitive at first sight indeed. And of course that is to a large extent subjective. So feel free to use it if it suits your needs. 
pyplot is a so-called state machine. It will operate on the "current figure" and "current axes". However, it will then, like in the first case, call the respective methods of the current objects. E.g. plt.plot(...) will just call ax = plt.gca(); ax.plot(...) internally anyways. So one might decide to directly work with the objects in question, instead of relying on pyplot to find those. 
Also, pyplot does not expose matplotlib's complete functionality. E.g. if you want to create a formatter for your ticklabels, you will need to use the object oriented interface anyways, 
plt.gca().xaxis.set_major_formatter(...)

in which case one might also be tempted to directly have an axes ax at one's disposal to work on
ax.xaxis.set_major_formatter(...)

Equally if you want to write a function to plot something to an axes, you might let this function take the axes object as input
def myplot(ax, data, **kwargs):
    ax.plot(data, label = "My plot", **kwargs)
    ax.set_title("My plot")
    ax.legend()

Then reusing such function on any axes is pretty handy. Maybe you have a single figure with an axes to plot to, 
fig, ax = plt.subplots()
myplot(ax, data)

or you have several axes in different figures
fig1, (ax1, ax2) = plt.subplots(ncols=2)
fig2, (ax3, ax4) = plt.subplots(ncols=2)
myplot(ax2, data2)
myplot(ax4, data3)

There are also cases, where you don't want to use pyplot at all, e.g. when embedding your plot into a GUI, in which case you'd need to use a structure like
fig = matplotlib.figure.Figure()
canvas = FigureCanvasQT(fig)
axes = fig.subplots(2,3)
axes[0,1].plot(...)

Finally, it should be noted that a lot of issues that people ask about here on Stackoverflow directly result from pyplot being used instead of the object-oriented approach. That's not to say, you shouldn't use it, but in overall terms it seems like pyplot increases the chances for shooting yourself in the foot if you don't pay maximum attention to what the "current axes" is while working with pyplot.
Due to all of the above, matplotlib came to the conclusion that it's best to advocate using the object-oriented approach, even though it might, for very simple examples like the ones from the question, be less straight forward to use. Even if not using the object oriented style, understanding it is somehow a prerequisite of using matplotlib even for midly complex plots.








Share


Improve this answer



                        Follow
                        










            answered Nov 5, 2018 at 12:02






ImportanceOfBeingErnestImportanceOfBeingErnest

340k6060 gold badges732732 silver badges762762 bronze badges














Add a comment
 | 
















                                    Your Answer
                                


























































































Thanks for contributing an answer to Stack Overflow!Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research!But avoid …Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers.Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience.To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers.






Draft saved
Draft discarded










Sign up or log in


 Sign up using Google
                        

 Sign up using Email and Password
                        



Submit

Post as a guest


Name









Email
Required, but never shown












Post as a guest


Name









Email
Required, but never shown











                                            Post Your Answer
                                        

                                            Discard
                                        

                                                By clicking “Post Your Answer”, you agree to our terms of service and acknowledge you have read our privacy policy.







Start asking to get answers
Find the answer to your question by asking.
Ask question




Explore related questions
pythonmatplotlibsubplot
See similar questions with these tags.




